Where do you want me at? Where you want us to sit? That's good.
Testing one, two, this the headphones. You got them Jad, I'm Robert. How's that?
Better. Oh, much better. Radiolab. Can I interrupt? Yes,
but could I say something first me first because I let you go.
It's going to be another 20 minutes. Do I get to talk a little while back?
I had a rather little, little, little, little,
little boisterous conversation with these two guys. First of all,
like who are you? I'm Larry. You Bell. Yeah, and I'm Alvin. New Bell.
So you are related in, you're both in the plumbing business.
Are we elite related? Yes,
we are related but we are in the home inspection business. Yeah,
their father and son. It's a family business.
We are the principles of accurate building inspectors of Brooklyn,
New York and I've been in the construction industry ever since.
I'm about 16 years old. I am 84 okay. I'm not giving my age.
I wanted to talk to them because as building inspectors they,
there's something they see over and over and over. Yeah, all the time.
That is actually a clue
[inaudible]
in what turns out to be a deep, deep mystery
which, which is what exactly. Well, uh,
let us say you have a yard in front of your house.
Yours is the back of your house but doesn't make it in front. Okay.
And right in the middle of the yard is a tree and the tree happens to be weeping
willow just for example, and not too far away from this tree underground,
there is a water pipe,
a perfectly good pipe connecting your house to the main city water line that's
in the middle of the street.
[inaudible] the roots of this tree of course can go any way they want to go.
They can go north, south, east, west, whatever.
But the you bells have noticed that even if a tree is 10 or 20,
30 yards away from the water pipe,
for some reason the tree roots creep with uncanny regularity straight toward the
water pipe. The tree will wrap its roots around Bagpipe, around at, around,
around in a tangling of Spaghetti, like almost.
And each one of those lines of spaghetti is squeezing a little bit.
Loo each one. Announce, announce, announce, announce, announce enough.
Eventually over a period of time it'll crack the pipe.
Like a nutcracker. Yes. You both see this happening all the time. Yeah.
I have done inspections where roots were coming up through the pipe,
into the house, into the house. It's amazing. Yes. This, this, this,
this actually happened to me.
The Magnolia tree outside of our house got into the sewer pipes,
reached its tentacles into our house and clustered the sewage pipe.
He just happens to a lot of people. It's almost as if these plants,
it's almost as if they know,
okay,
where our pipes are.
[inaudible]
I see what's happening. What are you bringing? The plant parade again?
Is that what, is that what this is? Of course I am. Because doing the like,
okay.
First it was the roots under the ground and all connected into a whole hive.
I don't know why now problems with this knows cause it's like,
it's like every time I close my eyes you're coming at it from a different
direction. I do. I do. The plant parade.
I met a plant biologist who's to lead that parade.
She's done three experiments and I think if I tell you about what she has done,
you even,
you will be provoked into thinking that plants can do stuff you didn't imagine
dream they could do. I know, I know you. I know,
but let me just, let me give it a try. So let's go to the first.
This is the plant and pipe mystery. Hello. Hello. Hello.
You might think that the plant sends out roots in every direction.
One of the roots just happens to bump into a water pipe and says,
sends a signal to all the others. Come over here. Here's the water. Right.
But that scientist I mentioned, my name is Monica Yanno.
I'm a research associate professor at the University of Sydney.
She took that notion out of the garden into her laboratory. Yeah,
tested it in my lab. She took some plants,
put them in a pot that restricted the route so they could only go in one of just
two directions toward the water pipe or away from the water pipe.
What kind of pot is this?
It's kind of shaped like the letter y but upside down so that you get the rich
can go to the left or the to the right. Oh, now the plants,
if they were truly dumb, they'd go 50 50 would be all random. Right?
But after five days,
she found that 80% of the time the plants went or maybe chose to head toward the
dry pipe that has water in it.
So the question is I planted is quite far away from the actual pipe.
How does he know which way to turn and grow its roots so that it can find it?
All right? My hypothesis is, is that what happens is, can I, can I,
can I have a few minutes? You've got somewhere to go. You got somewhere to go.
No good. If she's going to do this experiment,
most likely she's going to use cold water.
She's not going to use hot water because you don't want to cook your plants,
you know? And it's more expensive. Why wastes hot water? Well, by the way, true.
We established fact in your mouth. You want to compete. He had,
he's in the right track.
You have to understand that the cold water pipe causes even a small amount of
water to condense on the pipe itself. On the outside,
it's kind of like a cold glass sitting on your desk and there's always a puddle
at the bottom. The glass is not broken, it's not a leak.
Your water is still in there. So there is some water
side of the pipe. It's condensation, right?
So what they're saying is even if you totally sealed the pipe so there's no leak
at all,
the difference in temperature will create some condensation on the outside and
it's that little, little bit of moisture that the plant was somehow since
if you look at a route under a microscope,
what you see is all these thousands of feelers,
like hairs on your head looking for water, every one of them,
and all of a sudden one of them like, oh, I found a little water,
and then all the other one goes into the same direction. These sensitive hears,
he argues would probably be able to feel that tiny difference. Yes.
Monica says, no, absolutely not. I purposely removed
the chance for most degrading.
She made sure that the dirt didn't get wet because she'd actually fashioned the
water pipe to the outside of the pot. So it wasn't touching the dirt at all.
Wait, so the,
this branching pot thing [inaudible] the part where the water pipe was the,
the pipe was on the outside of the pot right outside.
And the plants still went to the place where the pipe was not even in the dark.
Yeah. Had a strange no,
or even just the vibration of the pipe that's making it go toward it.
No, you got it.
Maybe there's some kind of signal,
different kinds of signal traveling through the soil.
Monica thought about that and designed a different experiment. Again,
if you imagine that the pot, my Hispanic mental with the fork box. Yeah.
But then have two very different options for our plant on one side.
Instead of the pipe with water, she attaches an MP,
three player with a little speaker playing a recording of the sound of water.
And then on the other side, Monica has a mother MP3 player with a speaker.
But this one plays
nothing.
So she's got her plants in the pot and we're going to now wait to see what
happens.
Remember that the roots of these plants can either go one direction towards the
sound of water in a pipe or the other direction to the sound of silence.
On the fifth day they take a look and discover most of the routes and majority
of the roots were hitting toward the sound of water.
Exactly. Exactly.
So they just went right for the MP3 fake water. Not even the actual water.
Just the sound of it. Just the sound that that's, that's interesting.
That's interesting. That is interesting. But what, how would it be
plant?
Heres something like they don't have ears or a brain or anything like they
couldn't hear like we hear,
well maybe they definitely don't have a brain, no question there,
but they do have root hairs. This is Jennifer Frazier.
I am the blogger of the artful Amoeba at scientific American and she was willing
to entertain the possibility that plants can do something like here.
So what do we have in our ears that we use to hear a sound little hairs.
Yes. Right. And if you go to too many rock concerts,
you can break these hairs and that leads to permanent hearing loss,
which is bad. Uh, so maybe the root hairs,
which are always found right at the growing tips of plant roots.
Maybe plant roots are like little ears.
Maybe each route is, is like a little ear for the plant. I don't know.
That is cool. That is definitely cool. Okay. Good thing I don't get is, is um,
in animals, the hairs in our ear, uh,
are sending the signals to a brain and that is what chooses what to do.
That's true. If a plant doesn't have a brain, what is choosing where to go?
And I don't think Monica knows the answer to that, but she does believe that,
you know, that we humans,
we are a little obsessed with the brain.
And so we are under the impression,
oh I would say the conviction that the brain is the center of the universe and
a, and if you have a brain in a nervous system,
you a good and you can do amazing stuff.
And if you don't have one by default and you can do much in general,
it's a very biased view that humans have in particular two words,
others.
But still,
I mean to say that a plant is choosing a direction,
I don't know. I mean it's like when a plant bends towards sunlight, we all,
we've all seen house plants. Right? Right.
Would you say that the plant is seeing the sun? No. I mean it's just, it's,
it's reacting to things and there's a series of mechanical behaviors inside the
plant that are just bending it in the direction. I mean,
couldn't it just be like that? That's fair.
And I think if I move on to the next experiment from Monica,
you are going to find it a little bit harder to object to it.
We need to take a break first,
but when we come back the parade that I want you to join,
we'll come and swoop you up and carry you along in a flow of enthusiasm.
Yeah.
Hi, this is Ashley Harding from Saint John's Newfoundland. Canada.
Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred p Sloan Foundation enhancing public
understanding of science and technology in the modern world.
More information aboutSloan@wwwdotsloan.org.
Hey, Simon Adler here. Uh,
I'm one of the producers here at Radiolab and I wanted to take a quick second to
tell you about something that, uh, that I think is pretty interesting that,
that we make here, uh, besides the show. So we have a newsletter,
which I know everyone does, but hear me out.
Unlike a lot of other newsletters out there, uh,
we don't waste your time by just blabbing about what our next release will be or
begging you for money. Uh, actually we, we do a little bit of that. Uh,
but what we also do is each time a new episode drops,
we send you a list of staff picks,
essentially a collection of things to folks here who make this show have come
across recently and are excited about, uh,
they range from books and music to TV shows, youtube clips, art exhibits,
blogs. It's sort of a repository for the stuff that's got us interested.
But for whatever reason, uh, we're not sure how to turn into a radio story.
So if that sounds interesting to you at all, I hope you'll sign up for it.
Our newsletter, it's free and you can sign up in about just 30 seconds at radio
lab.org/newsletter or even easier just text our l is
as in radio lab news two seven zero one zero one that's RL news to seven zero
one zero one. And thanks
a year into Donald Trump's presidency.
We still don't have answers to basic questions about how this family business
works, like who or their business partners is the business benefiting from his
administration? Is Trump acting on behalf of the country or his company?
Trump inc is a podcast from w NYC studios and propublica where we dig deep and
ask questions about president Trump's family business.
We're looking for answers and you can help subscribe.
You can Trump the bank wherever you get your podcasts.
Three, two, one Jad Robert Radiolab. Yep.
So today we have a triptych of experiments about plants that apparently a jury's
still out are going to make me rethink my stance on plants. Yeah. Uh,
so we're up to experiment too now.
That is correct.
So we are going to meet a beautiful little plant called a [inaudible],
which is a perfectly symmetrical plant with with leaves on either side of a
central stem.
Yeah. I mean mosaic has been one of the pet plans,
I guess for many scientists for like centuries
because this peculiar plant has a, has a surprising little skill.
Yeah. It reflects and anti Predator reaction,
like a defensive mechanism.
As soon as it senses that a grazing animal is nearby. If a nosy do,
you're happy to bump into it. The mimosa plant folds, its leaves,
corrals, all its leaves up against it. Stem,
the whole thing immediately closes up and makes it look like, oh,
there's no plan here. Just a boring set of twigs.
Nothing delicious at all.
So the idea of like, oh well, never mind. Right.
And you can actually see this happen. So, okay. So we can get,
anybody can get one of these plants and we did this one here.
And if you just touch it, can I try it? Yeah, go for it.
Even just one leaf at that, you can actually watch this cascade.
Whoa. We're all the leaves closing like de Doo Doo Doo Doo Doo, Doo Doo.
Declare your man, look at that. They all went closed. Yeah.
Sort of startling to see. That's so UTI.
So that voice belongs to attish backyard. Who uh,
is with Princeton University's Council on science and technology.
We showed one of these plans to him and a couple of his colleagues, Sharon,
dela Cruz, this guy or this Guy Peter Landgren. Yeah, there you go. That's neat.
Cause we wanted them to help us recreate Monica's next experiment.
So maybe could you, could you just describe it just briefly, just what you did?
Well, um, I uh, created these, um, horrible, uh,
contraption. Apparently she built some sort of apparatus. Um,
I guess you could call it a Mimosa
plant, Dropbox picture, one of those parachute drops that they have at the,
at state fairs or amusement parks where you're hoisted up to the top,
except in this case, instead of a chair, they've got a little,
a plant size box into which she put these sensitive plants.
So the plants are now buckled in, minding their own business. And then
Monica Woo dropped him just about, you know, seven or eight inches
landing very comfortably onto a,
a padded base made of foam.
So no plans with actually hurt in this experiment.
The drop was just shocking and sudden enough for the little plan to close all
its sleeves do, which reflects defense thing.
Then Monica hits the plant back up again and drops it again.
Huh?
And again,
Oh
and again.
Ooh.
And after none, a whole nother drops,
Woo
plant, she noticed, stopped closing its leaves.
So after the first few,
the plants already realized that that was not necessary.
The plants, the plants stopped. What is it they did? They stopped.
They stopped folding up.
She thinks that they somehow remembered all those drops and it never hurts.
So they didn't fold up anymore. They'd learned something. Exactly.
Which is pretty amazing.
Couldn't it just be an entirely different interpretation here quick? What?
The plants have to keep pulling their leaves up and they just get tired.
They run out of energy. It might run out of fuel. Exactly.
It's a costly process for this plant.
But figured out they weren't tired because after dropping them 60 times,
she then shook them left to right and they instantly fold it up again.
It would close up. Oh, so it's not that it couldn't fold up,
it's just a during the dropping it learned that it didn't need to. Yeah,
that's a learning is something I didn't think plants could do. They do.
Oh whoa. High Tech. So we figured, look,
if it's this easy and this, matter of fact,
we should be able to do this ourselves and see it for ourselves. So, oh my God,
that's where the scientists from Princeton come in. Peter, Sharron and optician,
they designed from scratch.
So this is a towering parachute drop in blue translucent lego pieces and this is
our plant chopper and we can move it up and we can drop it.
So we strapped in our Mimosa plant,
little seatbelt farm for the ride down and then all right.
And then someone has to count. Okay. And then we let it drop. Five,
four, three, two, one drops,
five, four, three.
And we dropped it once and twice again. And again.
We were waiting for the fleas stopped folding. We dropped, we dropped.
But I don't know, it didn't happen. Oh,
it was curling up each time when every time it just kept curling and curling
didn't seem to be learning anything. So you,
so you couldn't replicate what you saw that happened at all.
So we went back to Monaco. Yeah. We, as you know, built your elevator.
I heard
you told her what we did and what happened to you didn't happen to us now can
you, can you imagine what we did wrong?
Like, for example, my plants were already in environment controlled rooms,
which is not a minor details.
Then the NOI experiencing extra changes for example,
I don't know if that was the case for your plans. Um,
I kept switching rooms cause we weren't sure whether you want it to be in the
highlight or weak light or some light or no light.
I wonder if there was maybe a bit too much. It was a possible
then maybe the plants correctly responded by not opening because something
really mad was happening around it and is like a,
this place is not safe.
The truth is I think on this point she's got a, she's right
one time the plant literally flew out of the pot and appended with roots.
Exposes like one of those experiments where you just are boarded on
humanitarian. Yeah.
I think what she would argue is that we kind of proved her point.
We were so inconsistent,
so clumsy that the plants were smart to keep playing it safe and closing
themselves up.
So I told you, I seen you aware,
very successful your experiment you found exactly. Well the plants will do.
And the your circumstances, which were, I don't know, let's say I'd be more,
um, tumultuous than mine
and she goes on to argue that had we been a little bit more steady and a little
bit more consistent,
the plants would have learned and would have remembered the lesson because what
she does next is three days later she takes these plants back into the lab.
The idea was to drop them again just to see like, uh, um,
the difference between the first time you learned something and the next time,
but they figure it out faster this time or maybe slower. Yeah.
So she takes the plants, she puts them into the parachute drop,
she drops them and she says this time they relaxed almost immediately.
Yeah. They'd remember straight away, straight away.
All of them know already what to do.
They remembered what had happened three days before the dropping didn't hurt
that they didn't have to fold up. So they didn't. Yeah.
And then she waited a few more days and came back. They still remembered. Yeah.
A few more days.
Yeah. And it was almost like a,
let's see how much I have to stretch it here before you forget.
Eventually she came back after 28 days. 28 days?
Yes. And they still remember, they still did not close when she dropped him.
That's what she says. What was your reaction when you saw this happen?
That's producer Andy Mcewen. Yes. For retention of, of knowledge.
My reaction was like, oh shit.
That was my reaction because I'm,
the only reason why this specimen turned out to be 28 days
is because I run out of time.
So they might remember even for much longer time than 28 days.
So she's saying they remembered for almost a month.
Can you remember what you were doing even this morning?
That's sort of like poof. Gone. That's a thing. But supposedly that she's right.
Yeah. Where would the have a little plan even store a memory was,
that's what I asked her. Um, I do want to go back though too
for for something like learning,
like I don't understand learning as far as I understand it is something that
involves memory and storage, but I do that in my brain.
That's the place where I can remember things in my brain to you. Yes.
It was. I think is your dog chucked into my analysis
because so bigs
because so enough of the peaks.
It's okay. It's okay. Puppy. It's okay.
I think I saw enough of that now. Sorry. Actually,
Monica's dog leads perfectly into her third experiment,
which again will be with a plant, but it was originally done with, with a dog.
So half love started by getting some dogs and some meat and a belt.
[inaudible] Jen Frazier gave us the kind of the standard story and his idea was
to see if he could condition these dogs to associate that food would be coming
from the sound of a bell.
So he brought them some meat and then eat the meat.
Then he would bring them the meat and he would ring a bell and again,
drooling eating and he would repeat this
ring meat, eat, ring meat, eat,
ring meat.
Finally, one time he did not bring the meat, but he rang the bell.
Sure enough, the dogs began to drill.
They had learned to associate the sound of the bell, you know,
for dogs has nothing to do with me with when they actually saw and smelled and
ate meat.
Exactly. No, that's a very, you know, animals do this experiment,
but it got Monica thinking, would the plan to the same,
could a plant learn to associate something totally random,
like a bell was something it wanted like food. Yeah.
Are you like aggressively looking around for like,
do you wake up in the morning say now what can I get a plant to do that reminds
me of my dog or reminds me of a bear or reminds me of a bee? No, really.
And I guess there's food. I feel, I feel this as a kind of good to say this.
It's like, no, no, I don't. I don't do that.
But Monica says what she does do is move around the world with a general feeling
of,
Huh, what if
[inaudible]
so she decided to conduct her experiment. Pretty much the concept
of Pavlov with this dog applied, but instead of dogs,
she had pea plants in a dark room and for the meat substitutes she gave each one
plant a little bit of food. In this case, a little blue led light
light is obviously representing dinner. So light is if you,
if you shine the light in a plant you're like feeding it. Yeah,
it plants really light light, you know, they need light to grow.
So otherwise they come for the synthesize. So for three days, three times a day,
Chinese little blue lights on the plants from a particular direction and she
noticed that unsurprisingly the plants would always grow towards the light.
Anyone who's ever had a plant in a window knows that.
And the salivation equivalent was the tilt of the
plan. Exactly. And then I needed to,
the difficulty I guess of the experiment was to find something that will be
quite irrelevant and really meant nothing to the plant to start with.
Like the bail for the dog.
So after much trial and error with clicks and hums and buzzes
all sorts of a randomness,
she found that the one stimulus that would be [inaudible]
perfect was a fan,
a little fan. The same one that I used in computers, like you know, really tiny.
She determined that you can pick a little computer fan in for Blowgun on the
people in for pretty much ever and the pea plant would be utterly indifferent to
the whole thing. The plants didn't care.
Then she placed the fan right next to the light so that
the light and the fan were always coming from the same direction.
And with these two stimulates, she put the plans,
a little pea plans through a kind of training regime. Little Fan goes on,
light goes on,
both aiming at the people from the same direction and the leans toward them.
Then she takes a little light and the little fan and moves them to the other
side of the plant. Turns the fan on,
turns the light on and the plan turns that way.
Yeah, find first light after end,
moved around but always matched in the same way together.
Fan Light, lean fan light fan light, lean,
same as the problem, the bell, the meat and the salivation.
So then at one point when you only play the bale for the dog or you, you know,
play the fan for the plant.
We know now for the dogs the dogs is expecting.
So it's predicting something to arrive in Monaco wandered in the plant's case.
If there was only the fan,
would the plant anticipate the light and lean toward it or would just be going
random after three days of this training regime,
it is now time to test the plans with just the fan. No light.
So Monica moves the fans to a new place. One more time. Yeah, switched on.
And The p plans,
I left alone to sit in this quiet dark room feeling the breeze.
And then the next day I remember going in on at the uni on a Sunday afternoon
and she
goes into that darkened room with all the people ads. So you know,
I mean the dark, but she's got a little red headlamp on. Yeah.
And she moves about the room to have a look hearing down at the plants under the
red glow of her headlamp
[inaudible]
and then I saw that these little plants by little piece had indeed turned and
moved toward the fan stretching up their little leaves as if they were sure that
at any moment now light would arrive
[inaudible]
and it's good. It was Sunday.
And I remember it was Sunday because I started screaming. He might have said,
oh, I might disturb my plants.
I go out and I thought there is no one here on Sunday afternoon.
I can scream my head off if I want to. And so I was really excited. I was like,
oh my God, these guys are actually doing it.
And so of course that was only the beginning.
Then we actually had to run four months of trials to make sure that,
you know that what we were seeing was no one p do an hour or two piece,
but it was actually a majority.
So you just did what Pavlov did do a plant.
You got a plant to associate the fan with food.
Yeah, pretty much.
Yeah.
But once again,
I kind of wondered if since the plant doesn't have a brain or even neurons to
connect the idea of light and wind or whatever [inaudible] where would they put
that information? Like how can a plant, how does the plant do that?
I don't know.
I don't know yet.
But what I do know is that the fact that the plant doesn't have a brain,
doesn't s doesn't, a priori says that she,
the plants can do something.
The fact that humans do it in a particular way,
it doesn't mean that everyone needs to do it in that way to be able to do it in
the first place. There are multiple ways of doing one thing, right?
Huh.
So we're really like, this is, we're really at the very beginning of this.
Yeah, I know this. That's why there is often more questions than answers,
but that's part of the fun as well.
[inaudible]
Monica, his work has actually gotten quite a bit of attention from other plant
biologists. Yes. And some of them, this is Lincoln.
I'm a professor emeritus of plant biology at UC Santa Cruz.
Say they're very curious, but want to see these experiments repeated.
It's very interesting experiment and I really want to see whether it's correct
or not. We'd have to, he's got lots of questions about her research methods,
but really his major complaint is, is her language, her use of metaphor, right?
For example, words like hearing or learning behavior. And this,
he's not a huge fan of. Yes. If you, uh,
get too wrapped up in your poetic metaphor,
you're very likely to be misled and to over interpret the data.
I mean, it's a kind of romanticism, I think, you know,
it goes back to anthropomorphizing plant behaviors.
I wonder
if her using these metaphors and producer Annie McEwen is perhaps a very
creative way of looking at looking at a plant and therefore leads her to make
makeup,
these experiments that those who wouldn't think the way she would would ever
make up and therefore she might in the end see something that no one else would
see. Is it, can it be letting in the light? Yeah.
Kind of even like could there be a brain or could there be ears or you know,
just sort of like going off the deep end there but maybe it makes her sort of
more open minded than, than, than someone is just looking at a notebook.
Um, I think you can be open minded but still objective. Um,
I mean I, I think there's something to that.
I think there are some cases where romanticizing something could possibly lead
you to some interesting results.
So you're like a a metaphor cop with a melty heart. Yes.
Is that,
that would be an interesting [inaudible] they have to edit this together.
Yeah. How much longer? Cause I have an appointment. All right. That's it.
I think
I will. I have one thing, just a curiosity.
As we were winding up with our home inspectors, Alvin and Larry, you bell,
we thought maybe we should run this metaphor idea by them. There's,
on the science side,
there's a real suspicion of anything that's anthropomorphizing in a plant.
They just don't like to hear words like mind or hear or see or taste for a plan
because it's too animal and too human.
And the classic case of this is if you go back a few centuries ago,
someone noticed that plants have sex. Oh yes.
That there was a kind of a moral objection to thinking of this way and I'm
wondering whether Monica is going to run into,
as she tries to make plants more animal,
like whether she's just going to run into this malice from the scientific
extent. I'm just wanting, you have this, you share any of that?
No, I don't. Because she may come up against it.
People who think that intelligence is unique to humans and so I don't have a
problem with that.
I've been looking around lately and I know that intelligence is not unique to
humans. Okay.
So I don't have an issue with that and every day that goes by and I have less of
an issue from the day before so I don't have a problem.
The problem is is with plants, so they may have this intelligent,
maybe we are just not smart enough yet to figure it out. Well, okay.
That's a parade. Oh, I'll show up for,
okay, let's do it.
[inaudible]
big thanks to Ashish Bhatia to Sharon dela Cruz and to Peter Lander going to
Princeton University's Council on science and technology. Also,
thanks to Kristi Melville and to Emerald O'Brian and to Andrews O'Hara and to
summer rain. You thinking summer rain?
I have did the plant's sneak that one in the summer is a real person and her
last name happens to be spelled a y. E. L. I. Z.
This story was nurtured and fed and ultimately produced by Annie McKeown's.
You actually trained this story in a rather elaborate experimental setup to move
away from the light until the late breeze against [inaudible] thinks.
Oh, one more thing.
Thanks to Jennifer Frazier who helped us make sense of all this.
You should definitely go out and check out her blog, the artful Amoeba,
especially to the post the four Lauren ones about plants. Plants
are really underrated. When I write a blog post,
my posts that get the least traffic, your anted are the plant posts,
no matter how amazing.
I think that the results are for some reason people just don't think plants are
interesting. And to me,
here are three more reasons that you can say no. Really,
plants are amazing and this world is amazing and that living creatures have this
ability for reasons we don't understand, can't comprehend yet.
That's amazing and fantastic.
And does it change my place in the world?
Does it threaten my sense of myself or my place as a human that a plant can do
this? No.
Does it threaten your sense of humanity that you depend for pretty much every
single calorie you eat on a plant? No.
So you think that that this, you think this is a Hubris corrector? Yeah,
I mean what? So they can't move. Well, some of them can.
First of all and big deal, can you make your own food? No.